**Caleb Hendrix**

**Senior Design**

**September 15, 2024**

## Individual Capstone Assessment

The senior design project for Computer Science is meant to be a showcase of everything learned through coursework and on co-ops, applied to an area of interest. I have taken many classes, both technical and non-technical, that have provided understanding of the theory of Computer Science as well as practical skills. On the job during my co-op semesters, I was able to cement the theoretical ideas from classes in real world applications. Through class group assignments and working with diverse teams on the job I learned how to work with a team and appropriately fulfill my role in that team. The senior design project is the opportunity to apply all these skills to a project that is challenging and interesting. It is not just another project, but the chance to build a full-scale application that requires using all the knowledge that I have accumulated.

The first programming class that I took in college was CS1005C Intro to Programming Python and R. This class got me interested in programming and made me switch my major to Computer Science. Since then, I have taken many fundamental and advanced Computer Science courses that have challenged me. I learned more advanced programming fundamentals like pointers in C++ in CS1021C Computer Science 1 and basic computer architecture in CS2011 Intro to Computer Systems. I learned how to design software systems and efficiently solve complex problems in CS2028 Data Structures and CS4071 Design and Analysis of Algorithms. I learned how to work with a team to organize, design, build and test complete pieces of software applications in EECE3093C Software Engineering and CS5130 Advanced Software Engineering. I also learned how the effectively communicate my ideas in writing by taking ENGL4092 Technical and Scientific Writing. By learning the fundamentals of programming, designing object-oriented code using proper algorithms and then integrating those solutions into applications I am prepared for the senior design capstone project.

I spent all five of my co-op rotations at Siemens Digital Industries Software working as a software development co-op. At Siemens, I worked on the NX product, which is an enterprise level CAD product. Working on NX involved writing a lot of C++ code using object-oriented design principles. I was given projects to implement features that would end up in the NX product. Through this, I learned how to code in a production environment, how to respond to code review, how to design my solutions and how to test them with unit tests. In my senior design project, I plan on using these skills of working with a team to design a solution, implementing it in the selected language and testing it to ensure quality. At Siemens I also learned how to summarize and present my work to others in the form of end-of-semester presentations. I plan on using this skill for the senior design project to effectively communicate the project at the end of the course.

The senior design project that myself and my team are doing will involve building a Mixed Reality application that integrates both Virtual Reality and Augmented Reality in some way. This is exciting and motivating for me because this technology is still so new and there is a lot of space for innovation. I feel that this kind of project can be challenging and interesting and allow me to fully utilize the skills I have acquired up to this point. With Mixed Reality applications, it is possible to present information and experiences to users in completely new ways. Initially we would like to design this application for headset devices like Meta’s Quest headsets or similar. We would like to develop an application for industry professionals to do things like visualize data or their workspaces in a meaningful way. This will involve designing the application to handle user accounts, building an interactive 3D space and allowing users to upload custom assets to name just a few.

At the end of the capstone project we expect to build a complete interactive/3D application for potential industry users. We would like users to be able to login and create/interact with their environment, both integrated and self-uploaded aspects of this environment, and have this meet some sort of business need. As a stretch goal, we would like multiple users to be able to interact collaboratively in the same environment. The project will be considered complete when we feel that we have implemented the core features of the application to sufficient quality. I will evaluate myself in that I will look back on the assigned aspects of the project that I had and evaluate whether I completed them with good quality. If the core aspects of the application function well and pass the unit tests that are written for them then we can conclude that the project is complete and is done well.