Sean Thomas

Senior Design

September 15, 2024

### Individual Capstone Assessment

For our capstone project we are doing a mixed reality application that can be used in industry settings. To me this project isn't just about creating a final project in order to pass this class. It is about bringing all of the knowledge that I have gathered in my college career so far together in order to show what I have learned. It is also about learning new things. I have never worked with any mixed reality before from a development perspective so I am excited to add this experience to my knowledge base. And depending on what exactly we decide to focus on, I will be learning more about the industry that we are making the application for.

My college experience has massively helped my preparedness for this project. Even if none of them had any direct information on mixed reality development, the concepts they taught me will help me more easily learn how to do mixed reality development. My first CS classes, CS1100: Intro To Computer Science and CS1021C: Computer Science 1, taught me the basics of computer science that is what my gave me the base knowledge to even be able to go about doing this project. I then took course such as CS2021: Python Programming and CS3003: Programming Languages where I learned and picked up more technical skills that I will apply to this project. The class that I think will help me the most with this project was EECE3093C: Software Engineering. This class taught me the life cycle of the development progress and how to go about starting development of a project.

For my Co-ops I spent time at 2 different places across 3 different total teams. I spent my first 2 co-op rotations at the National Security Agency (NSA) as a web developer and the rest of my co-ops at a company called NWEA, also as a web developer. I learned a lot about web development while on these co-ops, but I'm unsure on how much if any of those technical skills I will be able to apply to this project. However, I'm sure that most if not all of the non-technical skills I picked up will help me. I learned how to work on teams with people I had never met before and in many occasions had nothing in common with and work successfully together. I also learned how real companies and government agencies treat the development process and how I can take some of that and apply it to our project.

This project is the culmination of my college experience. It is a way for me to show how much I have learned and grown over my time in college and a way for me to learn and grow more by doing a project that I have little prior knowledge about. I'm working with people I've never met, which is always exciting in my mind. This will also allow me to explore something other than just web development which is all I did in my co-ops so I'll know if it is something I want to pursue when I'm looking for a full time job. In addition to that, I think it will be a great addition to my resume. All in all, I think this will be a great experience that will teach me a lot.

For my preliminary approach to this project, I'm looking at it from a high up view. I want to think big, not just on the whole project, but on each aspect of it then work my way to more detail which is something I have struggled with in the past. My expected results are having a mostly complete, time allowing, project that does what we set out to have it do. I will self-evaluate my contributions by comparing them to what the other members in my group accomplish. Am I keeping up or surpassing them, am I completing everything that I say I will or am asked to complete. I will know when we are done, when we are satisfied with the product that we have made.
